##### Study Buddy User Manual #####

Written By: Trayvon McKnight, Tony Ratliff, J'lesa Carr

USER TRAINING

Server Installation
The server software was written using the Java SE programming language.  While 
the distribution software was compiled with Java 1.8.111, it was designed to be 
Java 7 compatible as no advanced features from Java 8 was used in this production.
To run the software, an "IBM-compatible" machine with an x86 or x64 processor 
will be required.  The system can either be physical or virtual, but should have 
at least 8 cores at 2.2 GHz or higher, at least 16GB of ram, and at minimum a 
500GB hard drive.  While the Java programming language is cross-platform, a 
Linux OS gives the best results when it comes to multiple threads running at 
highest efficiency.  For this report, Ubuntu Server 16.04 is used.

The Study Buddy server is comprised of ten different classes all working in 
tandem to create a central hub allowing multiple users to communicate with each 
other.  Nine of these classes can run with only the Java JRE, but the class 
handling the calls to the database requires a database management system. 
The software was designed around MySQL Server 5.7.  This version or latter 
should be installed on the server machine after Ubuntu Server has been installed 
and updated.  Once MySQL has been installed, a database user should be added 
which will be used by the server software to access the database.  This user 
does not have to be the root user, the only permissions required are to be able 
to create the schema, insert into tables, and alter table data.  There are no 
operations such as dropping tables or working in any other database schemas.

While there are many classes in the server software, the entire solution has 
been packaged into an easy to execute java .jar file named ‘server.jar’. This 
file, along with other supporting files, are placed into a folder named 
‘StudyBuddy’.  This folder should be placed on the root of Ubuntu Server file 
system by copying the folder over from a flash drive or some other type of 
removable device which can be mounted.  The contents of the folder and content 
descriptions are shown below:

 
Lib - Contains the ODBC Driver to communication between Java and MySQL. 
Server.jar - The server executable.  This file contains all the different parts 
of the server software.
Studybuddy.conf - UPStart config file for starting the server at system startup.
Studybuddy-start.sh - Bash start script for starting the server.
Studybuddy-stop.sh - Bash stop script for killing the server process.
After installing the OS, MySQL , Java JRE 7 (or higher), and copying the contents 
of the StudyBuddy folder to the root directory, the server may now be started.  
For the purposes of troubleshooting any issues that may arise on the first 
startup, it is recommended to initially start the software from the command line 
to address any issues which may not allow the server to start with the system on 
startup. The server will start by running the start script with the following 
command:  
./studybuddy-start.sh from the StudyBuddy folder.  
A successful start should appear as the following:

 
However, there are four possible issues which may cause the server not to start.
ODBC Driver Missing – this error results when the contents of the lib folder are 
missing or not available. To correct this error, please verify the folder exists 
and has not been moved or accidently deleted.
Database Server Not Running – this error results when the MySQL server is either 
not installed, its service is not started, or the server is running on a port 
other than the default 3306.  Please verify MySQL installation and that the DBMS 
is running.  Avoid configuring the server for any other port.
Incorrect User or Password – this error results when the DBMS is available, but 
the studybuddy user has either not been set up, or the password is incorrect.  
Please verify these two issues have been resolved.

Port In Use – this error results when port 8008 is being used by another 
application.  This error could also show when trying to start the server again 
after it is already running.  Please ensure no other instances of the server is 
running.
Any of the above issues will prevent the server from starting, however if there 
are no problems and the server starts as it does in the image above, the server 
is now ready and listening for incoming connections from the Study Buddy Client.
The software looks for the correct tables used by the application.  If the 
tables are not present, the database schema is created as well as all the 
required tables for the software to properly run.  The following image shows a 
server log file from normal operation:

While the log is displayed in the shell, the log is also stored in a file when 
the shell is not available.  Once the server accepts and correctly processes 
incoming connections, the software should now be set to run when the system is 
started regardless if there is a user logged into the machine or not.

Within the StudyBuddy folder, there is a file named ‘studybuddy.conf’.  The 
shell user should log in as the root user on the Ubuntu server.  Once logged in 
as root, copy the file from the StudyBuddy folder over to the /etc/init folder.  
Restart the Ubuntu system and the Study Buddy server software should run 
whenever the system is started.

	
User Manual:
	How to Install on Device:
	Since Study Buddy is currently not an app on the Google Play Store, there 
	are a few extra steps that must be taken before the app can be installed.
Go to Settings
Navigate to General Setting (if needed)
Navigate to Security
Check Unknown Sources
Then go to studybuddy.uncg.edu

If you have already used this app before, or have registered previously, enter 
your email and password and tap the Login button to log into Study Buddy. 
Otherwise, tap the  “No account yet? Create one” link.

To register for Study Buddy, fill out the form and tap the Create Account button. 
If you already have an account, tap the “Already a member? Login” link.

The main menu offers a central location where you can navigate to all the Study 
Buddy’s features. From the main menu you can look at your profile, go into the 
settings, look at the classes you are taking, or logout. 

In the settings menu you have the ability to change your password.

To change your password, simply enter your current password, and the new 
password.

If you choose classes from the main menu, you will have all of the classes you 
are currently enrolled in displayed in a list.

Upon selecting a class from the classes menu, you will be taken into the chat 
room for that class. The chat room is accessible by every student who is 
enrolled in that particular class. To type a message, tap the text box at the 
bottom of the screen. After entering a message, tap the green SEND button.  

Tapping the menu icon in the top left corner of the Chat room opens the drawer. 
In the drawer, every student in the chat room is listed. The drawer tells you 
who is currently online and who is not. Tapping the send image icon will allow 
you to capture a photo to send in the chat room. Tapping on a user opens up a 
private chat between you and the other user.
